Open For PrePrints Training Program 
Help Librarians learn more about supporting Faculty with Scholarly Communication Issues 

Welcome!
First and foremost, Welcome! 🎉 
Thank you for visiting the Open for PrePrints Training Program project repository.
This document (the README file) is a hub to give you some information about the project. Jump straight to one of the sections below, or just scroll down to find out more.
What am I doing?
The problem
Faculty scholarship is often only available in paid databases where it can’t make an impact to those outside of the university community
Faculty are confused about where they can put their work in an open venue
It's difficult for librarians to advise faculty on this, as librarians are perceived as the gatekeepers of the paid databases 
Librarians are caught in the middle!
The solution
Liaison  Librarians’ serve as educators across the colleges about the publishing landscape, including shifts toward open access, options for negotiating author rights, and the practical implications requirements related to dissemination of research (e.g., research grant requirements, depositing work in a repository), and the use of scholarship in educational settings (e.g., course reserves, sharing articles in course management platforms, etc.). Whenever applicable, Librarians will incorporate scholarly communications concepts into teaching sessions and research consultations.

Goals and Objectives for training program
Demonstrates an understanding of scholarly communication issues facing libraries and faculty, including author rights, the benefits of open access, publishing metrics and measurements, how to  open access archive publications, and the changing structures of scholarly publishing 
Monitor faculty publishing habits in your subject to gain an understanding of the communication of research as it directly relates to your subject areas in order to assist students and faculty with common questions about practices and processes
Employs a basic understanding of intellectual property, copyright, and fair use of copyrighted material for librarians and educational situations
Integrates scholarly communications concepts into teaching sessions and research appointments.
Refers faculty and students to specialists for deep knowledge and assistance with digital publishing, copyright topics and open access.  

Who am I?
I am Jennifer Beamer the Scholarly Communication Librarian at The Claremont Colleges in Claremont, California. 

What do we need?
I’m not sure yet! I need to build a community of learners!
Get involved
If you think you can help me contact me jenniferb@claremont.edu
Please note that it's very important to me that we maintain a positive and supportive environment for everyone who wants to participate. If you join me I ask that you follow our code of conduct in all interactions both on and offline.
Contact me
jenniferb@claremont.edu
Thank you
